the savage rocky shores of Christmas
Island 200 miles south of Java in the
Indian Ocean
it's November the moon is in its third
quarter and the Sun is just setting and
in a few hours from now on this very
Shore a thousand million lives will be
launched
these crabs are all females and of a
kind that occurs only on Christmas
Island as darkness falls more and more
of them appear clambering resolutely
down to the sea now its nearing midnight
their numbers can only be guessed at but
on the island as a whole there are
probably a hundred and twenty million of
these crabs and nearly all the adult
females among them have chosen this time
for their annual spawning
a crab like this is carrying about
hundred thousand
and she has to shed them directly into
the sea if they are to hatch but that's
a hazardous business partner because
although her far distant ancestors came
from the sea she herself is a land and
she can't swim
so if a wave sweeps her away she will
assure the drug but nonetheless her
compulsion to launch the next generation
is irresistible and when at length she
does reach the sea a triumph
the crabs have picked the moment when
the tide is at its highest so that they
have the shortest distance to travel
across the beach to reach the water the
astronomical numbers of their eggs turn
the clear ocean water into a black
turbid soup
as dawn approaches and the tide recedes
so the eggs are swept out to sea
you